Add GCP Metrics Integration (#2849)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/configuration/integrations/gcp-exporter-config.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/configuration/integrations/gcp-exporter-config/
title: gcp_exporter_config
---

# gcp_exporter_config

## Overview
The `gcp_exporter_config` block configures the `gcp_exporter` integration, which is an embedded version of
[`stackdriver_exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus-community/stackdriver_exporter). This allows for the collection of 
metrics data from [GCP Cloud Monitoring (formerly stackdriver)](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/docs).

The exporter supports all metrics available via [GCP's monitoring API](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp). Metrics
exporter by this integration will follow the template `stackdriver_<monitored_resource>_<metric_type_prefix>_<metric_type>`. 

As an example,
for this load balancing metric

> ![gcp-exporter-config-metric](gcp-exporter-config-metric.png)

Reviewer: This image isn't showing up in my preview.  Is it really needed?  Could you link to the documentation topic rather than taking a screenshot of it?   If you decide to keep the screenshot, here are guidelines: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/image-guidelines/.  Here's the section on where to store assets: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/image-guidelines/#where-to-store-media-assets.  You're supposed to use the asset uploader application and not store images locally.

Author: I uploaded it let me know if it's helpful or should be removed

> As an example,
> for this load balancing metric
> ![gcp-exporter-config-metric](gcp-exporter-config-metric.png)
> metric_type_prefix = `loadbalancing.googleapis.com/`\
> metric_type = `https/backend_latencies`\
> monitored_resource = `https_lb_rule`\
> which will result in a final metric name of `stackdriver_https_lb_rule_loadbalancing_googleapis_com_https_backend_latencies`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a load balancing metric:

![gcp-exporter-config-metric](gcp-exporter-config-metric.png)

The following list shows its attributes:
metric_type_prefix = `loadbalancing.googleapis.com/`\
metric_type = `https/backend_latencies`\
monitored_resource = `https_lb_rule`\

These attributes result in a final metric name of:
`stackdriver_https_lb_rule_loadbalancing_googleapis_com_https_backend_latencies`
```

Reviewer: I used "attributes" but I'm not sure what these should be called...

## Authentication

> The agent will need to be running in an environment which has access to the GCP project it is scraping. The exporter
> uses the Google Golang Client Library, which offers a variety of way to [provide credentials](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/application-default-credentials).
> You will need to choose the option which works best for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agent must be running in an environment with access to the GCP project it is scraping. The exporter
uses the Google Golang Client Library, which offers a variety of ways to [provide credentials](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/application-default-credentials). Choose the option that works best for you.
```

> After deciding how the agent will obtain credentials you will need to ensure the account is set up with the IAM role `roles/monitoring.viewer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deciding how the agent will obtain credentials, ensure the account is set up with the IAM role `roles/monitoring.viewer`.
```

> Since the exporter gathers all of its data from GCP Monitoring APIs this is the only permission needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the exporter gathers all of its data from GCP monitoring APIs, this is the only permission needed.
```

Reviewer: Should there be a link to the GCP monitoring APIs here?

> ## Configuration Examples

Reviewer: I think you should include the reference section above the examples.

> Below are some working example configurations you can check out the [Config Reference](#config-reference) to see a full
> overview of configuration options and what they do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show working configurations. See the [Config Reference](#config-reference) for a full 
overview of the configuration options and what they do.
```

### Multiple prefixes
```yaml
  gcp_exporter:
    enabled: true
    project_ids:
      - <project_id>
    metrics_prefixes:
      - run.googleapis.com/
      - cloudfunctions.googleapis.com/
      - compute.googleapis.com/nat
      - logging.googleapis.com/billing
      - logging.googleapis.com/exports
      - serviceruntime.googleapis.com/quota/
      - storage.googleapis.com/
      - pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription
```

> ### Load Balancing with Filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Load balancing with a filter
```

```yaml
  gcp_exporter:
    enabled: true
    project_ids:
      - <project_id>
    metrics_prefixes:
      - loadbalancing.googleapis.com
    extra_filters:
      - loadbalancing.googleapis.com:resource.labels.backend_target_name="sample-value"
```

> ### Subset of Load Balancing metrics with Filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Subset of load balancing metrics with a filter
```

```yaml
  gcp_exporter:
    enabled: true
    project_ids: 
      - <project_id>
    metrics_prefixes:
      - loadbalancing.googleapis.com/https/request_bytes_count
      - loadbalancing.googleapis.com/https/total_latencies
    extra_filters:
      - loadbalancing.googleapis.com:resource.labels.backend_target_name="sample-value"
```

> ### Config Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration reference
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/configuration/integrations/gcp-exporter-config/
title: gcp_exporter_config
---

# gcp_exporter_config

## Overview
The `gcp_exporter_config` block configures the `gcp_exporter` integration, which is an embedded version of
[`stackdriver_exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus-community/stackdriver_exporter). This allows for the collection of 
metrics data from [GCP Cloud Monitoring (formerly stackdriver)](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/docs).

> The exporter supports all metrics available via [GCP's monitoring API](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp). Metrics
> exporter by this integration will follow the template `stackdriver_<monitored_resource>_<metric_type_prefix>_<metric_type>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exporter supports all metrics available via [GCP's monitoring API](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp). `gcp_exporter` follows the template `stackdriver_<monitored_resource>_<metric_type_prefix>_<metric_type>`. 
```

The following example shows a load balancing metric:

![gcp-exporter-config-metric-example](https://grafana.com/media/docs/agent/gcp-exporter-config-metric-example.png)

The following list shows its attributes: \

> monitored_resource = `https_lb_rule`\

Reviewer 2: Why are these `\` used for? github rendering is not very happy about it

Author: That's weird github is rendering it for me without issue,
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4571540/216320165-caaaba60-0fb4-486b-92f6-e49b4915a237.png)
The `\`'s created a newline without a paragraph break. I do need to remove the `\` from line 24 though

metric_type_prefix = `loadbalancing.googleapis.com/`\
metric_type = `https/backend_latencies`

These attributes result in a final metric name of:
`stackdriver_https_lb_rule_loadbalancing_googleapis_com_https_backend_latencies`

## Authentication

The agent must be running in an environment with access to the GCP project it is scraping. The exporter
uses the Google Golang Client Library, which offers a variety of ways to [provide credentials](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/application-default-credentials). Choose the option that works best for you.

> After deciding how the agent will obtain credentials, ensure the account is set up with the IAM role `roles/monitoring.viewer`.
> Since the exporter gathers all of its data from [GCP monitoring APIs](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/v3), this is the only permission needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deciding how Agent will obtain credentials, ensure the account is set up with the IAM role `roles/monitoring.viewer`.
Since the exporter gathers all of its data from [GCP monitoring APIs](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/v3), this is the only permission needed.
```

## Configuration reference

```yaml
  #
  # Common Integration Settings
  #
  

>   # Enables the gcp_exporter integration, allowing the Agent to automatically collect metrics or expose gcp metrics 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Enables the gcp_exporter integration, allowing Agent to automatically collect metrics or expose gcp metrics.
```

  [enabled: <boolean> | default = false]

>   # Sets an explicit value for the instance label when the integration is self-scraped. Default will be
>   # based on subscriptions and ResourceType being monitored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Sets an explicit value for the instance label when the integration is self-scraped. Default is
  # based on subscriptions and ResourceType being monitored.
```

  [instance: <string>]

>   # Automatically collect metrics from this integration. If disabled, the exporter integration will be run but not 
>   # scraped and thus not. remote-written. Metrics for the integration will be exposed at 
>   # /integrations/gcp_exporter/metrics and can be scraped by an external process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Automatically collect metrics from this integration. If disabled, the exporter integration is run but not 
  # scraped and thus not remote-written. Metrics for the integration are exposed at 
  # /integrations/gcp_exporter/metrics and can be scraped by an external process.
```

  [scrape_integration: <boolean> | default = <integrations_config.scrape_integrations>]

  # How often should the metrics be collected? Defaults to
  # prometheus.global.scrape_interval.
  [scrape_interval: <duration> | default = <global_config.scrape_interval>]

  # The timeout before considering the scrape a failure. Defaults to
  # prometheus.global.scrape_timeout.
  [scrape_timeout: <duration> | default = <global_config.scrape_timeout>]

  # Allows for relabeling labels on the target.
  relabel_configs:
    [- <relabel_config> ... ]

>   # Relabel metrics coming from the integration, allowing to drop series
>   # from the integration that you don't care about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Relabel metrics coming from the integration, allowing series that you don't care about to be dropped
  # from the integration.
```

  metric_relabel_configs:
    [ - <relabel_config> ... ]

>   # How frequent to truncate the WAL for this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # How frequently to truncate the WAL for this integration.
```

  [wal_truncate_frequency: <duration> | default = "60m"]

  #

>   # Exporter specific configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Exporter-specific configuration
```

  #

>   # Required: Configure the GCP Project(s) to scrape for metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Required: Configure the GCP Project(s) to scrape for metrics.
```

  project_ids:
    [ - <string> ... ]

>   # Required: One or more values from the supported GCP Metrics(https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp)
>   # These can be as targeted or loose as needed
>   # Using pubsub metrics (https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-pubsub) as an example
>   # all metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Required: One or more values from the supported GCP Metrics(https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp).
  # These can be as targeted or loose as needed.
  # Using pubsub metrics (https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-pubsub) as an example
  # all metrics.
```

  #   - pubsub.googleapis.com/
  # all snapshot specific metrics 
  #   - pubsub.googleapis.com/snapshot
  # all snapshot specific metrics and a few subscription metrics
  #   - pubsub.googleapis.com/snapshot
  #   - pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription/num_undelivered_messages
  #   - pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription/oldest_unacked_message_age
  metrics_prefixes:
    [ - <string> ... ]

>   # Optional: Used to further refine the resources you would like to collect metrics from
>   # The structure for these filters is <targeted_metric_prefix>:<filter_query>
>   # The `targeted_metric_prefix` is used to ensure the filter is only applied to the metric_prefix(es) where it makes sense.
>   #   It does not explicitly have to match a value from `metric_prefixes` but the `targeted_metric_prefix` must be at least a
>   #   prefix to one or more `metric_prefixes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional: Used to further refine the resources you would like to collect metrics from.
  # The structure for these filters is <targeted_metric_prefix>:<filter_query>.
  # The `targeted_metric_prefix` is used to ensure the filter is only applied to the metric_prefix(es) where it makes sense.
  #   It does not explicitly have to match a value from `metric_prefixes` but the `targeted_metric_prefix` must be at least a
  #   prefix to one or more `metric_prefixes`.
```

  #   Example: 

>   #     metrics_prefixes = pubsub.googleapis.com/snapshot, pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription/num_undelivered_messages
>   #     targeted_metric_prefix options would be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #     metrics_prefixes = pubsub.googleapis.com/snapshot, pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription/num_undelivered_messages
  #     targeted_metric_prefix options would be:
```

  #       pubsub.googleapis.com (apply to all defined prefixes)
  #       pubsub.googleapis.com/snapshot (apply to only snapshot metrics)
  #       pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription (apply to only subscription metrics)
  #       pubsub.googleapis.com/subscription/num_undelivered_messages (apply to only the specific subscription metric)

>   # The `filter_query` will be applied to a final metrics API query when querying for metric data
>   #   You can read more about the metric API filter options in GCPs documentation https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/v3/filters
>   #   The final query sent to the metrics API already includes filters for project and metric type. Each applicable `filter_query`
>   #   will be appended to the query with an AND

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # The `filter_query` is applied to a final metrics API query when querying for metric data
  #   You can read more about the metric API filter options in GCPs documentation https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/v3/filters.
  #   The final query sent to the metrics API already includes filters for project and metric type. Each applicable `filter_query`
  #   is appended to the query with an AND.
```

  extra_filters:
    [ - <string> ... ]

>   # Optional: the time range used when querying for metrics
>   # Most of the time the default works perfectly fine. Most documented metrics include a comments of the form 
>   #   `Sampled every X seconds. After sampling, data is not visible for up to Y seconds.`
>   #   As longs as your `request_interval` is >= `Y` you should have no issues
>   #   Consider using `ingest_delay` if you would like this to be done programmatically or are gathering slower moving metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional: The time range used when querying for metrics.
  # Most of the time the default works perfectly fine. Most documented metrics include a comments of the form 
  #   `Sampled every X seconds. After sampling, data is not visible for up to Y seconds.`
  #   As longs as your `request_interval` is >= `Y` you should have no issues.
  #   Consider using `ingest_delay` if you would like this to be done programmatically or are gathering slower moving metrics.
```

  [request_interval: <duration> | default = "5m"]

>   # Optional: when enabled this automatically adjusts the time range used when querying for metrics backwards based on
>   #   the metadata GCP has published for how long the data can take to be ingested. You can see the values for this in 
>   #   documented metrics as `After sampling, data is not visible for up to Y seconds.`
>   # Since GCPs ingestion delay is an "at worst" this is off be default to ensure data is gathered as soon as it's available  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional: When enabled this automatically adjusts the time range used when querying for metrics backwards based on
  #   the metadata GCP has published for how long the data can take to be ingested. You can see the values for this in 
  #   documented metrics as `After sampling, data is not visible for up to Y seconds.`
  # Since GCPs ingestion delay is an "at worst," this is off by default to ensure data is gathered as soon as it's available.
```

  [ingest_delay:  <boolean> | default = false]

>   # Optional: when enabled this offsets the time range used when querying for metrics by a set amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional: When enabled this offsets the time range used when querying for metrics by a set amount.
```

  [request_offset: <duration> | default = "0s"]

>   # Optional: when enabled drops metrics from attached projects and only fetches metrics from the explicitly configured `project_ids`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional: When enabled drops metrics from attached projects and only fetches metrics from the explicitly configured `project_ids`.
```

  [drop_delegated_projects:  <boolean> | default = false]

>   # Optional: sets a timeout on the client used to make API calls to GCP. A single scrape can initiate numerous calls to
>   #   GCP so be very mindful if you choose to override this value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Optional: Sets a timeout on the client used to make API calls to GCP. A single scrape can initiate numerous calls to
  #   GCP, so be mindful if you choose to override this value.
```

  [gcp_client_timeout: <duration> | default = "15s"]
```

## Configuration Examples

> The following examples show working configurations. See the [Config Reference](#config-reference) for a full 
> overview of the configuration options and what they do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show working configurations. See the [Configuration Reference](#config-reference) for a full 
overview of the configuration options and what they do.
```
